public method = 

private helper method - it cannot be called externally because it is private.

member variables = attributes

accessor methods = used to access attributes

instance method = 

Static method = use static keyword

Static methods are easier to call than instance methods because they dont need to vbe called on an instance of the class but are called directly on the class name.

public scope = 

public static method 

Methods are defined in a class and objects are instances of a given class.

Constructor is a method that is called at the beginning of an object's lifetime to create and intialize the object.

A class variable is any field declared with the static modifier; this tells the compiler that there is exactly one copy of this variable in existence, regardless of how many times the class has been instantiated. 

Instance variables (non-static fields) are unique to each instance of a class. 
Class variables (static fields) are fields declared with the static modifier; there is exactly one copy of a class variable, regardless of how many times the class has been instantiated.
Local variables store temporary state inside a method. 
Parameters are variables that provide extra information to a method; both local variables and parameters are always classified as "variables" (not "fields"). 

    The term "instance variable" is another name for non-static field.
    The term "class variable" is another name for static field.
    A local variable stores temporary state; it is declared inside a method.
    A variable declared within the opening and closing parenthesis of a method is called a parameter.
    What are the eight primitive data types supported by the Java programming language? byte, short, int, long, float, double, boolean, char
    Character strings are represented by the class java.lang.String.
    An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.

All objects have state and behavior, that is, things that an object knows about itself, and things that an object can do.